- [Instructor] So far, we have talked about processes,
we've talked about threads,
we've talked about scheduling priorities,
all of that theory.
Now, let's start looking into the Java Standard Edition
concurrency utilities.
We have to do this because when we get to do
the enterprise edition part of it,
it will become easier to understand
the concurrency utilities for enterprise version, okay?
All right, so Java Standard Edition multithreading overview.
We have already spoken that the Java platform supports
concurrency programming through multithreading.
Now, in order to do that on the standard edition,
we have two levels of APIs: basic and high-level.
When you talk about the basic APIs,
we have two entities:
the thread class and the runnable interface.
All of these reside under the java.lang package.
And then, there's a high level API,
which we call executor framework.
Very important.
And all of these lie under the java.util.concurrent package.
So, in the upcoming videos,
we are going to see them most for the thread
and the runnable class,
then we'll have a quick look at all the APIs
that we have in these entities,
and once that's done, then we will move on
to the executor framework.